Document Machine ID and CircleCI joining (#20009)
gravitational/teleport: docs/pages/machine-id/guides/circleci.mdx

---
title: Using Machine ID with CircleCI
description: A tutorial for using Machine ID with CircleCI
---

<Details
  title="Version warning"
  opened={true}
  scope={["oss", "enterprise"]}
  scopeOnly={true}
  min="11.0"
>
  Machine ID for CircleCI is available starting from Teleport `v11.1`.
</Details>

In this guide, you will use Teleport Machine ID to allow a CircleCI job to
securely connect to a Teleport SSH node without the need for long-lived secrets.

This mitigates the risk of long-lived secrets such as passwords or SSH private
keys being exfiltrated from your CircleCI organization and provides many of
the other benefits of Teleport such as auditing and finely-grained access
control.

## Prerequisites

(!docs/pages/includes/edition-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

(!docs/pages/includes/tctl.mdx!)

- A node that is a part of the Teleport cluster with
[Server Access](https://goteleport.com/docs/server-access/introduction/) and a
user you want to grant access to. In this guide, we will use `my-node` and

> `ci-user` respectively, replace these with values appropriate to your setup.

Author: Yeah that's much nicer, thank you.

- A CircleCI project connected to a Git repository you can push to.

## Step 1/4. Configure CircleCI

In order to configure the rules for which CircleCI workflows will be allowed to
connect to your Teleport cluster, you must determine the ID of your CircleCI
organization and create a CircleCI context.

### Find your Organization ID

Open CircleCI and navigate to "Organization settings" from the navbar.
You should be presented with an interface titled "Overview" with a section
called "Organization ID". Note this value down and substitute `$ORGANIZATION_ID`
in configuration examples with this.

### Create a Context

> CircleCI has an organization level concept called
> ["contexts"](https://circleci.com/docs/contexts/). Contexts allow an
> organization to configure a series of secrets that should be exposed to a
> workflow job, and can control which actors are allowed to trigger jobs
> associated with a context.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CircleCI has an organization-level concept called
**contexts**, which allow you to configure a series of secrets that should be exposed to a
workflow job. You can configure CircleCI to control which actors are allowed to trigger jobs
associated with a context.
```
Since reading more information about contexts isn't necessary to complete this guide, I've suggested removing the link. Should we add the link to the "Further steps" section?

Author: We already link to the general CircleCI docs, I think it'll be fine.

The contexts that a workflow job has been assigned are also encoded in the

> identity token that CircleCI creates for the job. This makes them an ideal way
> of Teleport determining which CircleCI jobs should be granted access to the
> Teleport cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
identity token that CircleCI creates for the job. This makes them an ideal way
for Teleport to determine which CircleCI jobs should be granted access to the
Teleport cluster.
```

In this example, you will create a CircleCI context named `teleport-access`.
You will then grant this context access to your Teleport cluster.

To create the CircleCI context, open up "Organization settings" in CircleCI
and navigate to "Contexts". Click "Create Context" and provide `teleport-access`
as the name of the context you wish to create. You may substitute this value
for a string that makes more sense to your organization, but ensure in future
steps of this guide that you replace `teleport-access` with your value.

> Select the context you have just created, you will now be on a page that allows

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Select the context you have just created. You will now be on a page that allows
```

> you to configure the context. You will need to determine the ID of the context
> to use when configuring Teleport. This value can be found in the URL of the
> context settings page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you to configure the context. To determine the ID of the context
to use when configuring Teleport, locate the URL of the
context settings page, which should have a format similar to the following:
```
- Make it clearer sooner in the paragraph that you will get the context ID from the URL
- Add a transition to the URL example

> E.G:
> `https://app.circleci.com/settings/organization/github/gravitational/contexts/00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000`

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```text
https://app.circleci.com/settings/organization/github/gravitational/contexts/00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000
```
````
Suggested to block this off from the surrounding text a bit more

> In this case, the context ID is: `00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, the context ID is: `00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000`.
```

Note this value down and substitute `$CONTEXT_ID` in configuration examples
with this.

## Step 2/4. Create the join token for CircleCI

In order to allow your CircleCI workflow to authenticate with your Teleport
cluster, you'll first need to create a join token. These tokens set out criteria
by which the Auth Server decides whether or not to allow a bot or node to join.

Create a file named `tokenconfig.yaml`, ensuring that you replace

> `$ORGANIZATION_ID` and `$CONTEXT_ID` with the values from step 1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`$ORGANIZATION_ID` and `$CONTEXT_ID` with the values from Step 1.
```

to be used in other parts of the configuration later.
- `metadata.expires` defines the date that the join token will expire. This
example is set to the year `2100`.
- `spec.bot_name` is the name of the Machine ID bot that this token will grant
access to. Note that this value will need to be used in other parts of the
configuration later.
- `spec.roles` defines which roles that this token will grant access to. The
value of `[Bot]` states that this token grants access to a Machine ID bot.
- `spec.join_method` defines the join method the token is applicable for. Since
this guide only focuses on CircleCI, you will set this to to `circleci`.
- `spec.circleci.allow` is used to set rules for what CircleCI runs will be able
to authenticate by using the token.

Apply this to your Teleport cluster using `tctl`:

```code
$ tctl create -f tokenconfig.yaml
```

## Step 3/4. Create a Machine ID bot

With the join token for the CircleCI project created, you now need to create a
Machine ID bot that the token will grant access to. A Machine ID bot is a
special type of Teleport user designed for access by machines, and can
authenticate using a join token rather than forms of authentication more

> suitable to users (e.g such as SSO.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
suitable to users (such as a Single Sign-On solution).
```

For this guide, we are using the default `access` role and explicitly stating
that the bot should have access to the `ci-user` login on hosts. In production
environments, we recommend creating a custom role for your CI/CD workflow and
ensuring that this role has no more permissions than is needed for the workflow
to complete its tasks.

Use `tctl` to create the bot:

```code
$ tctl bots add circleci-demo --roles=access --logins=ci-user --token=circleci-demo
```

> ## Step 4/4. Configure CircleCI workflow

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 4/4. Configure a CircleCI workflow
```

With the token and bot now configured, you can now create a CircleCI workflow
that can connect to your Teleport cluster.

> Our example workflow will connect to a SSH node named `my-node` and write a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our example workflow will connect to an SSH node named `my-node` and write a
```

line to a file that links back to the CI/CD run. This is a trivial example and
could be replaced with pushing new configuration or binaries over SSH.

Open your Git repository and create a directory called `.circleci`. Then open

> a file called `config.yml` and insert the following configuration. Replace

Reviewer: What would you think of:
- moving the part of the paragraph beginning at "Replace" after the snippet
- ending this paragraph at "configuration" with a colon to introduce the snippet

This way, once the user has a YAML file to edit, they can follow the instructions to replace different values.

Author: 8c4f60c735

> `tele.example.com:443` with the public-facing address of your Teleport Proxy or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`tele.example.com:443` with the public-facing address of your Teleport Proxy Service or
```

cloud tenant (e.g. `example.teleport.sh`). Replace `my-node` with the name of
the Teleport node that you wish to connect to and replace `ci-user` with the

> login you configured in step 3.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
login you configured in Step 3.
```

      - image: cimg/base:stable
    steps:
      - checkout
      - run:
          name: "Install Teleport"
          command: |
            cd /tmp
            curl -O https://cdn.teleport.dev/teleport-(=teleport.version=)-linux-amd64-bin.tar.gz
            tar -xvf teleport-(=teleport.version=)-linux-amd64-bin.tar.gz
            sudo ./teleport/install
      - run:
          name: "Use Machine ID to access Teleport Node"
          command: |
            tbot start \
              --auth-server=tele.example.com:443 \
              --join-method=circleci --token=circleci-demo \
              --oneshot \
              --destination-dir=./certs \
              --data-dir=/tmp/tbot-data
            tsh \
              -i ./certs/identity \
              --proxy tele.example.com:443 \
              ssh ci-user@my-node \
              "echo $CIRCLE_BUILD_URL >> ~/circle_run_log_demo"
workflows:
  write-run-log:
    jobs:
      - write-run-log:
          context:
            - teleport-access
```

Add, commit, and push this new configuration file to your repository.

Open CircleCI and check the status of the job, wait for it to complete and
ensure that no errors are emitted.

> SSH into `my-node` and confirm that a file has been created in ci-user's home

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SSH into `my-node` and confirm that a file has been created in `ci-user`'s home
```

identity token that CircleCI creates for the job. This makes them an ideal way
for Teleport to determine which CircleCI jobs should be granted access to the
Teleport cluster.

In this example, you will create a CircleCI context named `teleport-access`.
You will then grant this context access to your Teleport cluster.

To create the CircleCI context, open up "Organization settings" in CircleCI
and navigate to "Contexts". Click "Create Context" and provide `teleport-access`
as the name of the context you wish to create. You may substitute this value
for a string that makes more sense to your organization, but ensure in future
steps of this guide that you replace `teleport-access` with your value.

Select the context you have just created. You will now be on a page that allows
you to configure the context. To determine the ID of the context
to use when configuring Teleport, locate the URL of the
context settings page, which should have a format similar to the following:

```text
https://app.circleci.com/settings/organization/github/gravitational/contexts/00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000
```

In this case, the context ID is: `00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000`.

> Note this value down and substitute `$CONTEXT_ID` in configuration examples

Reviewer 2: Would be cool to use the `<Var>` component for these.
